Welcome everyone to part two of the portfolio allocation and Sharpe ratio CO-2 long lectures we're going
to go right back to the same notebook and we're going to first cockily a couple of full six and then
we'll walk through calculating the Sharpe ratio.
Let's open up the notebook and get started.
OK.
Here in the notebook if we take a quick look at Portfolio yvel which is the data frame we created the
last time we have all the positions for each of the stocks as far as our allocations.
And then we have our total position so we start off a million dollars spread in some sort of fashion
between these four securities.
We're going to do is calculate a couple of statistics things like daily returns average daily return
sorry a deviation and then we'll use those to actually calculate the Sharpe ratio.
So let's begin by grabbing our portfolio Velle and then off of this we're going to create a new column
called daily return and call it daily returns if you want.
And this will be the portfolio.
Well those say total position PC t change one number that's the quick way using Pandurs and if you take
a look at the overall the head of it now we have an extra column called daily return where the first
value is now null and that makes sense because your first daily return should be no because there's
no previous day to compare it to.
And then all we're going to do is get our average daily return.
So to do that we just have to get porfolio yvel the return call the men off of this and then we get
our average and say portfolio yvel daily return and called SDD they'll give us the standard deviation.
Okay.
And we can also always plot the returns themselves.
So you can say portfolio yvel daily return and then plots a lot of times you want to plot either a histogram
so we can say something like kind is just maybe specify several bins 100 bins and then even a fixed
size would probably be a good idea here.
Something like eight by 10 or whatever whatever dollars you want here.
So you can see a histogram of what they looked like that was probably way too much.
It's kind of put these in half.
There we go.
So histogram is one way people like to look at these.
They also like to look at them using a kernel density estimation plot which is kind of making a distribution
out of it.
So say K-T for that we don't need that been sold like that and run that and then we'll get our little
Katy here and it goes from zero and then on negative side we see 0.05 all the way down 0.1.
On the positive side.
Okay.
And then finally one other stick that we won't really be using for the sharp ratio but sometimes it's
nice to know it's just your overall percentage on return.
So sometimes people can just call this a cumulative return.
So cumulative return.
Keep in mind this is not the daily cumulative returns to just the overall cumulative return.
So from the time period 0 all the way to the very last time period which you could say index at negative
one.
What is your total percent return.
So we can say something like 100 times to get a percentage here.
Grab the portfolio value at the total position negative one that or at the very last position of value
and then divide it by portfolio.
Val total position zero.
And then just subtract one from that.
That should get us the percentage.
If I check out cumulative return I can see it's eighty four point seventy four.
So our returns.
Eighty four point seven percent.
On top of what we've already started with OK.
And then if we really want to see it we can just say portfolio whoops cancel that.
Copy this Fiorillo and see if we can just see here.
If I start with $1 billion.
Now I have one million eight hundred forty seven thousand four hundred twenty eight dollars et cetera.
And you can see that it matches up with this right here.
Now it's time to discuss the sharper issue.
Again remember the Sharpe ratio is a measure for calculating risk adjusted return and this ratio has
become the industry standard for such calculations.
So the Sharpe ratio is essentially the mean portfolio return minus the risk free rate divided by the
standard deviation.
Now we're going to take the assumption the risk free rate is going to be equal to zero.
Again this kind of changes in the future especially if the Fed starts raising interest rates higher
and higher.
But for now to keep things simple we'll calculate it as just zero percent on your risk free rate.
OK.
So how do we actually grab the Sharpe ratio.
Well we're going to say S.R. is equal to our portfolio value.
We're going to ask for the daily return take the mean of it and then divide it by portfolio value to
daily return and then take the standard deviation of it.
Run that and here we can see our sharp ratio.
Now remember Sharpe ratio was actually intended to be a yearly data source.
So for example when you're actually using this equation of mean over standard deviation to get the annualized
Sharpe ratio you're going to multiply that by some sort of value for your sampling rate.
In our case our sampling rate is daily.
So we're going to need to multiply it by the square root of 252 sensors 252 business days year essentially
as far as trading These are concerned.
So we're going to say the following.
Take 252 to the power of 0.5.
That's the same as the square root of it.
Now we're going to multiply that by our Sharpe ratio and this will result in our analyzed shirt ratio
and if you take a look at our annual surprise show we get out 0.8 1.
So when you see this annual A sharp ratio value of 0.8 one you might be wondering well what's a good
sharp ratio value to actually get generally a sharp ratio greater than one is considered acceptable
to good by investors.
The pending on what kind of risk tolerance is.
But more importantly the pending on who their actual customers are a ratio higher than 2 is usually
rated as very good.
And their ratio of 3 or higher is considered to be excellent.
And as you go throughout this course you realize kind of just how hard it is to get a ratio that high.
Now the basic purpose of the Sharpe ratio is to allow investors to analyze how much greater a return
he or she is obtaining in relation to the level of additional risk taken to generate that return.
Okay now that we have this really important number this sharp ratio we're going to be able to use it
in order to allocate our securities in the most optimal fashion.
Let's go ahead and learn how to do that and then we'll actually code it out.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.